'Programming is the act of extending or changing a system's functionality.'
CTMCP

'Composition is the essence of programming.' Bartosz Milewski

LEARNING STRATEGIES

Functional JavaScript by Michael Fogus seems an excellent followup to this
class.

use prompts for recall practice:

  + css rule set
  + css dimensions
  + css relative and absolute length units
  + css percentage units

place a list of prompts on an index card and engage in retrieval practice on
commute

what are my learning objectives?

build a strong knowledge base because it can enable future creativity
  '...we would argue that a strong knowledge base is a prerequisite to being
  creative in a particular domain. A student is unlikely to make creative
  discoveries in any subject without a comprehensive set of facts and concepts at
  his or her command. There is no necessary conflict in learning concepts and
  facts and in thinking creatively; the two are symbiotic.' Roediger & Pyc 2012

make my focus understanding the new concepts and ideas.

3 general principles of effective learning
  + distribution of material and practice
  + frequent assessment of learning
  + explanatory questioning

'Education is about learning new skills and increasing your capacity for doing
things.' Devlin 2012

'If you can't solve a problem by looking for a template to follow, a formula to
plug some numbers into, or a procedure to apply, what do you do? The answer is
you think about the problem. Not the form it has, but what it actually says.'
Devlin 2012

'Our relationship to concepts thus should mirror that to other persons....For
that to happen, and for us to inhabit concepts as living frameworks with a deep
history, rather than occasionally wielding them as tools...also means to
conceive rationality not as a correlate of self-possession but of what, echoing
Hegel, Gadamer calls "recognition."' Thomas Pfau 2013

FUNCTIONAL PROGRAMMING

All of the functional programming concepts: declarative variables, function
definition, function composition, recursion, conditionals.

'The dramatic growth in mathematics led in the 1980s to the emergence of a new
definition of mathematics as the science of patterns.' Devlin 2012
